manage connections (#3023)
astronomer/docs: astro/create-and-link-connections.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Create connections in Astro'
title: 'Create Airflow connections in the Cloud UI'
id: create-and-link-connections
description: "Create Airflow connections and link them to multiple Deployments in the Astro Environment Manager."
---

:::caution

This feature is in [Public Preview](feature-previews.md).

:::

> You can create and manage connections across Deployments with the Astro Environment Manager in the Cloud UI. This strategy of connection management uses an Astro-managed secrets backend to store connection configurations as Kubernetes Secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create and manage Airflow connections for Deployments with the Astro Environment Manager in the Cloud UI. The Environment Manager uses an Astro-managed secrets backend to store connection configurations as Kubernetes Secrets.
```

> You can create and manage connections across Deployments with the Astro Environment Manager in the Cloud UI. This strategy of connection management uses an Astro-managed secrets backend to store connection configurations in Hashicorp Vault as Kubernetes Secrets.

Author: ```suggestion
You can create and manage connections across Deployments with the Astro Environment Manager in the Cloud UI. This strategy of connection management uses an Astro-managed secrets backend to store connection configurations as Kubernetes Secrets.
```

Using the Environment Manager, you can quickly and securely create connections once and share them to multiple Deployments without having to set up your own secrets backend. You can also create a connection once and use it across multiple Airflow Deployments. 

> When you create a connection in the Cloud UI, you can:

Author: ```suggestion
Compared to creating a connection in the Airflow UI, when you create a connection in the Cloud UI, you can:
```

- Share the connection with multiple Deployments within the Workspace.

> - Override certain fields in the connection for individual Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Override fields in the connection for individual Deployments.
```

> - Share connections with local Airflow environments. See [Import and export connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md#from-the-astro-cloud-ui).

Reviewer: This isn't really "compared to the Airflow UI", since you can also do this with the Airflow UI. Maybe we can rework that first clause which introduces the list to just "When you create a connection in the Cloud UI, you can:"

3. Run `astro deploy` to rebuild your project image and push the changes to your Deployment.

## Configure connection sharing for a Workspace

You can configure Astro to link Workspace-level connections to all Deployments in the Workspace by default. 

This is useful, for example, when you need to configure a connection for development environments that all Deployments in a Workspace should start out with. Then, when you create new Deployments, they automatically have a default connection to your development resources.

When you're ready for your Deployments to connect to your production environment, you can either replace the connection or [override the connection field](#override-connection-fields) values with your production resource information.

If you change the setting from **Restricted** to **Linked to all Deployments**, Astro respects any Connection Field Overrides that you might have configured for existing linked Deployments.

![Edit Deployment Sharing settings in the Environment Manager view](/img/docs/connection-restrict-link-all.png)

1. Click **Environment** in the main menu to open the **Connections** page.

> 2. Click the Connection that you want to add per-Deployment field overrides to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the connection that you want to add per-Deployment field overrides to.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Create connections in Astro'

> title: 'Create Airflow connections in the Astro Cloud UI'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Create Airflow connections in the Cloud UI'
```

1. Open the local Astro project for your Deployment.
2. Add the required provider package name to your project's `requirements.txt`. Save your changes.
3. Run `astro deploy` to rebuild your project image and push the changes to your Deployment.

## Configure connection sharing for a Workspace

You can configure Astro to link Workspace-level connections to all Deployments in the Workspace by default. 

This is useful, for example, when you need to configure a connection for development environments that all Deployments in a Workspace should start out with. Then, when you create new Deployments, they automatically have a default connection to your development resources.

When you're ready for your Deployments to connect to your production environment, you can either replace the connection or [override the connection field](#override-connection-fields) values with your production resource information.

If you change the setting from **Restricted** to **Linked to all Deployments**, Astro respects any Connection Field Overrides that you might have configured for existing linked Deployments.

>     ![Edit Deployment Sharing settings in the Environment Manager view](/img/docs/connection-restrict-link-all.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Edit Deployment Sharing settings in the Environment Manager view](/img/docs/connection-restrict-link-all.png)
```

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: A lot of these prerequisites are the same across topics, might make sense to have an H2 prerequisites at the start of the doc and then add minor notes about specific requirements elsewhere. That would clean up the sidebar a bit and also allow us to remove the "Setup" headers, since we'd just be jumping straight into the setup.

For example, you might have created a connection to a Snowflake account, and then add field overrides to specify the default schemas or databases you want each Deployment to use. 

### Prerequisites
- `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR` or `WORKSPACE_OWNER` [user permissions](user-permissions.md)
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md)
- A connection linked to a Deployment
- Astro Runtime 9.3.0 or greater

### Setup

1. Click **Environment** in the main menu to open the **Connections** page.
2. Click the Connection that you want to add per-Deployment field overrides to.
3. (Optional) Click **Deployment Sharing** and choose if you want to **Restrict** or **Link to all Deployments**. You can also change the default connection field values.Click **Update connection** to save.
4. Click **Edit** to open the connection configurations for a specific linked Deployment.
5. Add the override values to the fields you want to edit. You might need to open **More options** to find the full list of available fields.
6. Click **Update connection link**.

> ## Sync connections to work locally

Reviewer: So I know this isn't technically identical to the import processes we have in https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/import-export-connections-variables , but I still think that's the right doc for this content because I would be weighing this as an option alongside the other methods in that doc.

When you create connections in the Cloud UI, you can configure your project to use these connections locally with the Astro CLI.

You can choose to work with a connection depending on whetehr they are [linked to all Deployments](#configure-connection-sharing-for-a-workspace) in your Workspace, or working with just one Deployment by specifying the `workspace-id` or `deployment-id` when starting your local project.

When you start your project with these settings, the Astro CLI will first fetch the necessary connections from Astro. Then, after the local Airflow containers start, Astro populates the metadata database with those connections. This ensures that the connections are encrypted in the metadata database and not easily accessible by an end user.

### Prerequisites

> - Install or update the latest version of the [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/install-cli)

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning you need to authenticate to Astro through the internet? That's definitely not normal protocol for normal development so it might throw people off

- A connection linked to a Deployment
- A local [Astro Project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli#step-1-create-an-astro-project)
- Astro Runtime 9.3.0 or greater

### Setup 

1. Enable local development access to connections created in the Cloud UI.

    ```zsh
    # -g sets this config globally
    astro config set -g disable_env_objects false
    ```

2. Log in to Astro and choose your Organization and Deployment when prompted.

    ```zsh

    astro login <domain name>
    ```

> 3. Retrieve your Workspace ID or Deployment ID, depending on which 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Retrieve the ID of either the Workspace or Deployment that you want to import connections from. 
```

>     - **Using connections linked to all Deployments in a workspace** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Import Workspace-level connections:** 
```

    ```zsh
    astro workspace list
    ```

>     - **Deployment ID**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Import Deployment-level connections:**
```
